here we're going to tie a fly called the
first thing I'm going to do is I'm going
to start my thread I'm going to leave
the tag end nice and long leave it
hanging off the back of the hook next
thing I'm going to do so I'm going to
tie in a couple of mayfly tails also
known as microfibe ATS and I get two of
these from the clump I try to keep the
tips nice and even I'm going to tie
these in right on top of the shank of
the hook and the length of them is about
the length of the shank of the hook once
I get those tied in with a few turns I'm
going to raise them up and just kind of
manually split them with my fingers I'm
going to take that piece of thread and
go right right in between them that's
going to split them for me then I can
take that thread forward real quick
keeping the body nice and even
I'm going to take my thread back to the
rear where I'm dub the body here I'm
going to tie a blue and olive color so
I'm going to use some olive or blue and
olive colored superfine dubbing I'm
going to put on just enough to coat the
hook or coat the thread
got to be very careful not to overdo it
at this point and put on too much just
takes a little bit and I'm just going to
progress this dubbing forward slowly
building a slight taper to the body and
then go all the way up to thorax I'm
going to stop just shy the thorax now
we're ready to tie in the wing which is
going to be some compare down hair to
your hair I'm going to cut out a chunk
that's about half the diameter of a
pencil you don't want to do too much
here it's better to actually tie it a
little bit sparse rather than a little
heavy I'm going to put it into a hair
stacker I'm gonna stack it
now once I've got the tips nice and even
in my stacker and ready to tie them in
and I do so by taking the tips and they
face forward on the fly and I want them
to be about the length of the shank of
the hook no shorter no longer I've just
got tie those in right there at the
thorax I'm going to put down four five
nice tight wraps then I'm going to take
my deer hair and I'm going to lift it up
and I trim it as close as I can at the
back there get out any of the extra
fibers that you can I'm going to wrap
back on those and just clean them up a
little bit I'm going to lift up that
deer hair
I'm going to lay down some raps right in
front of it I'm going to rap back up on
the deer ever so slightly and build up a
little bit of a thread damn what that's
going to do is cause that deer hair to
stand straight up and flare to the sides
ever so slightly if you get one that
doesn't want to cooperate I usually just
take it and trim it out of there or
pluck it out of there now we're going to
jump to the back again and we're just
going to polish off the work that we
just did here with a little bit of
dubbing same color dubbing try not to
trap any of the deer hair kind of push
it forward again
I'm going to lift the deer hair back
again jump my thread to the head of the
fly then we can wit finish right at the
eye the hook
just our tails and our weighing after we
just mangle it by touching them once
you've done that the fly is essentially
finished I'll show you here the Halfmoon
shape we were just talking about for the
the wing see how spreads out nicely
there this fly will set nice and flush
to the water split my tails nice and
clean there and that's all there is to
the compare done very simple fly to tie
for the most part hardest parts just
working with that deer hair